All right.
This massive list finally finished being entered in memory but remember our key terms remember how I
said a list is an adorable what was an admirable well an integral is any object in Python which we're
able to loop through underneath the hood.
It has the Dunder theater method.
So when the object is created this itor allow us to have an ball object that can be iterated over to
iterate something or iteration is the act of taking an item from an intolerable doing something to it
then going to the next one when we use loops like for loops or while loops.
We call that iteration.
It's the process itself and generators
are actually ignorable.
That is everything that is a generator.
Is it trouble you can iterate over them but not everything that is ignorable is a generator.
For example a range is a generator.
So that is always going to be ignorable but a list is an integral but it's not a generator.
So a generator is a subset of an honorable.
I know those are a lot of words.
Hopefully you're still with me.
The difference between a generator and a regular ignorable is the way we implement them.
So let me show you a general way to create a generator let's clear this code and define our own generator
and generators are usually functions just like range is a function.
Generators are usually created this way.
So let's say generator function and this generator function is going to have a for loop that is going
to loop over a range just like we had before but the difference here.
Let's actually bring back the code that we had previously
just going to comment this out so we can see it in terms of difference the generator function is going
to create let's say these many items but instead of returning like we would in a regular function we're
going to use a keyword called yield and here we're going to Hield the eye so the item so.
Notice the difference here.
Now if we want just like here we can pass a number like this but instead of returning and appending
this list and creating all this data we're going to use yield.
Now what does yield do you see yield pauses the function and comes back to it when we do something to
it which is called next.
Something that will cover Shirley so yield says hey pause the function just yield I give I.
And when you tell me to keep going again then I'll keep going.
So how can we do this.
Well I can say for item in the generator function I'm going to the item now here what's going to happen
is we're going to loop over the generator function and we'll give it to the generator function.
Let's say a thousand for now and we're going to print each item in the generator function because this
is an admirable it's going to run and it's going to loop.
And for every item in this number so that it's range we're going to yield why.
So it's going to keep looping and looping and when we come back when we loop over we're going to run
this and the yield comes back and runs again.
Let me show you what I mean.
I want to comment this out comment this out as well and just click run here.
Did you see that what we just did here is similar to down here.
But instead of having to create that list in memory it just kept going one by one.
We only held one item in memory and we used it.
However we wanted to in our case all we did was print item let's explore this Hield keyword a little
bit more.
What does it actually do.
Let's say that we want to multiply this by two.
Just like we did here in our original example with list but now instead of doing the for loop let's
just call the function and say G equals generator function and we're gonna give it a 100.
Now if I print G and I click Run you see that I get a generator object I remember this is just the standard
way in Python that we can create a generator function using the range and the yield keyword but this
Hield keyword gives us some power because if I just return here we're not going to get anything special
as a matter of fact we're just going to get a value instead by using the yield keyword what we're able
to do is to turn this into a generator function that can do well this I can say Next G.
Now if I print next G in here and I click Run I get zero but here's the cool part if I do next G twice
and then one time here and print it I get for Y is that remember the Hield keyword pauses the function.
So what just happened here is I ran the function with 100 the first item in range 100 was zero.
Now here before I was even able to run this it said hey this is a generator function.
But the first time you run it give the output zero times 2 so that the very first time we run this function
and I click Run I'll make sure we change that too I.
This is just zero if I run it again like this.
Then we have now I want you to iterate and go to 1.
So 1 times 2.
What is that.
1 times 2.
Let me fix that.
Like this.
Make sure this is I I get 2 because 1 times 2 is 2.
If I run it again and I click Run I get 4 you see yield.
Like I said before pauses the function and comes back to it when next is called so if it has a yield
keyword it becomes a generator.
It keeps track of this state what we call the value and it only keeps the most recent data in memory.
For example 4 it remembers that because on let's say line 14 if I do print next G
it remembers that previously this I was well for.
So now even though this piece of code already ran if I run it on line 14 I get 6 because three times
too well is six.
Remember because it gets multiply by 2.
So let me ask you this if let's say I only do a range of one here and you know let's just remove multiply
by 2 if I do this and I run next more than well more than once.
What is going to happen if I click Run here I get a stop iteration you see next can be called as many
times as we want as many times until this range expires and when we exceed the number of items in the
range well we get a stop iteration error to let us know that hey you can't call next anymore.
We've reached the end of one and when we use for loops with ranges it actually did Texas underneath
the hood for you.
So we're able to run a function like this where we use range even though range is a generator because
the for loop automatically says hey I'm going to stop looping as soon as I encounter this stop iteration
but that's hidden away from us as users.
Now this concept of generators is pretty hard to understand especially at first so you might have to
look at this a couple of times but over the next couple of videos I want to convince you how powerful
they are.
I'll see in the next one by.